2
CREATION FOR THE PLANET
CSR COMMITMENTS
Summary table of the group's carbon emissions
(A breakdown of the carbon footprint for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (partial) is provided in Section 5.3.)
[TABLEPLACEHOLDER 0]
(a) Partial Scope 3 covers GHG emissions related to upstream energy (upstream hydrocarbons, and upstream electricity and transmission and distribution (T&D) losses), purchased raw materials, property, freight, waste, business travel, employee commuting, certain sold and leased products (manufacture, freight, use and end-of-life) and financial investments.
(b) As the transaction giving Vivendi a controlling interest in the Lagardére group was finalized in the fourth quarter of 2023, its environmental data are not yet included in the group's non-financial reporting for 2023, in accordance with its reporting protocols (see Note on non-financial reporting methodology in Section 7.1.). As a result, to ensure comparability with 2023 data, this table also presents restated 2022 data excluding GHG emissions related to the financial investment in Lagardére.
he group began to take action to control, avoid and reduce its GHG emissions as from year-end 2021. After a 10% reduction in Scopes 1 and 2 emissions was recorded in 2022, the measures taken in 2023 led to a 20% decrease (market-based) and 4% decrease (location-based) or Scopes 1 and 2. The upward trend in partial Scope 3 was reduced rom +19% in 2022 to +1% in 2023 on a like-for-like basis (details in Section 5.3.). These reductions are in line with the emissions reduction lan submitted by Vivendi to the SBTi (see Section 4.1.2.2.).
travel and raw materials categories, with raw materials criteria integrated into its supplier specifications process (see Section 4.1.3.3.). Lastly, in its pursuit of continuous improvement, Vivendi intends to gradually expand the measurement of carbon emissions from the group's activities, particularly from TV broadcasting and video streaming.
= 4.1.2.2. Science-Based Targets and decarbonization objectives
he group's reduction in Scope 1 emissions is mainly due to lower emis- sions from refrigerant gases and generators. The decrease in emissions rom refrigerant gases stemmed from measures taken regarding the maintenance of refrigeration equipment, combined with a reduced use of air conditioning. For generators, it was a result of increasing the amount of electricity supplied by the grid for the group’s entities in Africa.
With regard to Scope 2, the 27% drop in market-based emissions mainly teflects the group's increasing use of renewable energy, and the reduction in location-based emissions is directly attributable to lower energy consumption resulting from the energy-efficiency measures deployed throughout the group.
For Scope 3 — which accounts for the majority of the group's overall emissions — Vivendi is pursuing its reduction efforts by taking action in all of the categories included in this scope. These efforts are successful, with the first positive effects becoming apparent for waste management and certain sold and leased products. The group will continue to roll out its measures and action plans in 2024, focusing particularly on the business
Vivendi’s decarbonization action plan — which sets out its carbon emissions reduction targets that were approved by the SBTi in March 2023 — aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2035 compared to the base year of 2018. The targets set cover Vivendi's most significant activities in order of their contribution to its carbon footprint (see table below):
¢ 1: purchases of goods and services and property (Scope 3) > “Suppliers” commitment;
2: operating emissions (Scope 3) > “Operations” commitment;
3: use of leased products and services (Scope 3) > “Business activities” commitment; and
4: energy consumption of sites (Scopes 1 and 2) > “Energy” and “Use of renewable electricity” commitments.
In addition to the long-term targets for 2035 approved by the SBTi, Vivendi has set interim objectives for 2025 to allow the group to manage the operational implementation of its decarbonization action plan more effectively.
VIVENDI — ANNUAL REPORT — UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2023
104