To our shareholders Group Management Report
Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information
Table of contents
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Innovation | Digital transformation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity ® Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Independent practitioner's report
n the healthcare services market segment, we differenti- ate between (non-hazardous) hospital-specific waste and (potentially) hazardous waste. No special requirements are placed on the collection and disposal of the former from an infection prevention perspective. Together with wound and plaster dressings, underwear, disposable clothing, and dia- pers, for example, they make up the largest proportion of the total waste generated. Hazardous waste is specially dis- posed of by professionals.
f the design of a product is under the control of an ISO 14001-certified organization, as part of the life cycle per- spective, the design phase must take environmental aspects into account, for instance, sustainable, e.g., recycled com- ponents or packaging. The influence of the organization on pharmaceutical products can be limited due to the im- portance of patient safety and product quality require- ments.
CLIMATE PROTECTION — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
Climate change and its effects are also impacting Fresenius: in healthcare facilities, we have to prepare for rising temperatures and the increase in severe weather events in order to continue to protect the health of patients in the best way possible.
Another current challenge is that energy is becoming more and more expensive, especially if it is obtained from dwindling fossil resources. Our production processes and the operation of healthcare facilities require a high level of energy input. Energy-efficiency measures can lead to
short- and long-term cost savings. In addition, through the increased usage and generation of renewable energies, we also want to make an important contribution to climate pro- tection.
OUR GOALS AND AMBITIONS
We survey our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions annually in order to identify emissions-intensive activities and derive reduction measures. For example, we are introducing new technologies with a lower environmental impact which can improve the energy efficiency of our processes and thus lead to lower greenhouse gas emissions. We are also work- ing on recording our Scope 3 emissions so that we can also include emissions from the upstream and downstream sup- ply chain in our climate goals.
The healthcare products market segment takes envi- ronmental aspects into account during the development phase and is increasingly placing its strategic focus on more environmentally friendly products.
There are also various projects in our hospitals to im- prove the reduction, recycling, avoidance, and reuse of waste. In Germany, for example, reusable crockery can be borrowed free of charge from all Helios-owned canteens, double-sided printing has been introduced as standard and the use of recycled paper in printing devices in the admin- istration. We were able to reduce food waste at 15 pilot lo- cations in Spain in the reporting year by implementing effi- ciency measures.
CLIMATE PROTECTION GOALS
[TABLEPLACEHOLDER 0]
‘Implementation will be concluded at all Fresenius Kabi production sites in 2026. The certifica-
tion issuance from the individual certification companies may extend into the following year.
Coverage applies to entities already certified or for which a certification is planned
190
| Annual Report 2023
Fresenius