To our shareholders Group Management Report
Group No Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Innovation | Digital transformation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity ® Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Independent practitioner's report
Consolidated financial statements Further information ancial Report Corporate Governance
Table of contents
In 2023, Fresenius consumed a total of 3.09 million MWh of energy, a decrease of 3% compared to the previous year. In the reporting year, we again focused our activities on energy efficiency measures and increasing our renewa- ble energy usage across the Fresenius Group. Our main en- ergy sources remain gas and electricity.
ABSOLUTE ENERGY CONSUMPTION'
[TABLEPLACEHOLDER 0]
* Data of Fresenius Helios expanded in 2022 and 2023 to further entities.
GROUP ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE
? Fossil fuels, —__ excl. gas 3% Renewable fuels 3% Purchased heat, steam and cooling 10% Electricity (renewable) 18% Gas 46% Electricity (non-renewable) — 3.09 MWh in millions
We derive energy to 99.7% from external providers. This includes the purchase of renewable energy such as hydro- power, solar, or wind power. We are exploring the use of renewable energies and already generate our own electric- ity at numerous production sites and clinics, e.g., via com- bined heat and power systems or solar panels.
In 2023, we purchased around 551,260 MWh of renew- able electricity. We also use energy from photovoltaic and biomass plants or from thermal and electrical cogeneration and pellet boilers.
Fresenius Kabi, for the first time, purchased green elec- tricity for seven production sites in 2023. We intend to achieve a 6% annual reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We plan to continue theses activities for the fol- lowing years. Fresenius Kabi also operates photovoltaic systems at six of its production sites, and two more were approved for operation in 2023. These will be completed in 2024.
Helios Spain commissioned three new photovoltaic sys- tems on the roofs of hospitals in Malaga, Marbella and To- ledo in 2023, bringing the total number to 23. Fresenius Helios switched to 100% certified green electricity in Ger- many in 2022. With these efforts, we increased the share of renewable electricity consumption across the Group from about 12% in 2022 to about 18% in 2023.
To increase energy efficiency in buildings, the performance of relevant energy consumers is measured, compared with more energy-efficient systems, and finally a decision is made about retrofitting. In this way, efficient as well as eco- nomically sensible solutions are used — such as LED lamps or heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems (HVAC). In the healthcare products market segment, we are gradually retrofitting the fans in a total of 21 HVACs at one of our production sites. In 2023, five systems were retrofit- ted. Fresenius further invests in new buildings and mod- ernizations that meet the latest energy standards and legal requirements.
The air conditioning systems in our hospitals in Spain are responsible for a large proportion of the total energy consumption of Helios Spain. Since 2011, we have been working on automating the management of these devices and have implemented this mode of operation in ten hospi- tals already. For example, when outside temperatures drop, the systems adjust their output automatically. This allows us to better adapt to increasingly frequent, abrupt, and ex- treme temperature changes and save energy through more efficient use.
3.09 MWh in millions
RELATIVE ENERGY CONSUMPTION
[TABLEPLACEHOLDER 1]
| Annual Report 2023
Fresenius
192